README.md, before:

# Opower Connection Pool Homework

This is a very basic scaffold project for you to work in for the connection pool homework assignment

## Instructions

Please clone the repository and deliver your solution via email in an archive format of your choice, including all project files, within 1 calendar week.  _Do not submit your solution via pull request to this repository._

Write a connection pool class that implements this interface (it is also located in `src/main/java/com/opower/connectionpool/ConnectionPool.java`):

    public interface ConnectionPool {
        java.sql.Connection getConnection() throws java.sql.SQLException;
        void releaseConnection(java.sql.Connection con) throws java.sql.SQLException;
    }

While we know there are many production-ready implementations of connection pools, this assignment allows for a variety of solutions to a real-world problem.  Your solution will be reviewed by the engineers you would be working with if you joined Opower.  We are interested in seeing your real-world design, coding, and testing skills.

## Using this scaffold

This scaffold is provided to help you (and us) build your homework code. 
We've included a `pom.xml`, which is a file used by [maven][maven] to build the project and run other commands.   It also contains
information on downloading dependent jars needed by your project.  This one contains JUnit, EasyMock and Log4J already, but feel free
to change it as you see fit.

    mvn compile      # compiles your code in src/main/java
    mvn test-compile # compile test code in src/test/java
    mvn test         # run tests in src/test/java for files named Test*.java


[maven]:http://maven.apache.org/

Commit message:

Refactored the source code hevily, need to have the tests match

README.md, after:

# Opower Connection Pool Interview Solution

This is my (Seraj Dosenbach) solution to the interview challenge given by Opower.

## About the solution

The solution follows the bean design approach. The approach was chosen to simplify testing and to focus on 
the algorithm at hand, connection pooling, rather than the multitudinous facets of creating connections and 
the many variants on how to store the connections. Therefore, to use the connection pool in the real world 
one would have to instantiate an instance of the pool and provide, via the setters, all the required fields.

The choice of writing a blocking connection pool stemmed from two factors:
  1 - Without a connection its rather pointless to proceed with 


Since the goal was to write a connection pool, not create a connection, I used the factory design pattern to 
abstract the creation of Connections behind an interface. A user of the connection pool can then provide a 
configured connection factory that meets the needs of the system.
 

## Extensibility 

Since a bean approach was used it can be cumbersome to setup a functional instance of the pool. While this 
approach is convenient in a Spring environment (or similar) with the aid of dependency injection, static 
convenience create methods can be added to the ConnectionPool interface or overloaded constructors added to 
the concrete implementation itself to ensure all necessary fields are provided when setting up a new instance
of the pool.  

## Using this scaffold

The basic structure of the project is as was provided. I modified the pom.xml to use java 1.7 and EasyMock 3.3.1. 

    mvn compile      # compiles your code in src/main/java
    mvn test-compile # compile test code in src/test/java
    mvn test         # run tests in src/test/java for files named Test*.java


[maven]:http://maven.apache.org/
